---
title: "Accessing the Lab"
date: 2017-07-15T18:47:46Z
draft: true
---

# Introduction
The lab environment that we are hosting contains the virtual machines (VMs) that you'll need to access in order to play in the CTF. We use OpenVPN to private a secure tunnel to the lab environment from your Internet connection.

OpenVPN is an open source VPN software application that allows configuration of VPN services for servers and clients. Our lab network is configured to use OpenVPN to connect to our CTF machines in our attack scenarios.

# Lab Rules
1. Denial of service type attacks are not allowed.
2. Locking other players out from the VM is not allowed. This includes setting firewall rules or disabling listening services which were already turned on.
3. Altering or deleting flags is not allowed.
4. Altering IP address configurations is not allowed.
5. Attacking other players on the system is not allowed.

Anyone found to be violating these rules may be kicked off the network and banned from future access.

# Preconfigured Kali Linux
We provide a preconfigured [Kali Linux VM](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B2K8RLTn7XOaVmsyTWVVSGd1ZTQ) to download. The username:password for the VM is root:toor. All you have to do is open a terminal and run the script on the Desktop by opening a terminal and entering ```./openvpn_connect.sh```. The script will start the VPN connection. You'll have to enter your credentials to complete the connection.

# Client configuration for Linux
1. Go to https://107.21.21.107:943/
2. Enter credentials to login.
3. Click link at bottom "Yourself (user-locked profile)"
4. Save client.ovpn to a folder on your system
5. Open a terminal
6. Use command ```openvpn --config client.ovpn --auth-nocache``` to connect. In the code example, client.ovpn is in the current directory.
7. Your terminal will display connection information and should complete connection after about 10 seconds.
8. Leave terminal open to keep the OpenVPN connection active.
9. Close terminal or type Ctrl+C to kill connection.

## VPN Credentials
User name: student

Check Piazza for the VPN password.

# Subnets
You'll have to scan 10.0.0.0/16 to find the VM to attack. Or alternatively go to [https://2mvsrfattk.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/live/](https://2mvsrfattk.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/live/) to find a list of IP addresses for each VM.

# Lab Virtual Machines
The lab VMs all have vulnerabilities that can be exploited to gain access and find flags. VMs will reset back to original configurations approximately every hour. So consider yourself to have one huor per VM to attack. If you don't finish in one hour, just start over on the reset VM.

# References
1. [OpenVPN - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenVPN)
2. [https://www.kali.org/downloads/](Official Kali Linux Downloads | Kali Linux)